# Modelproject

For our modelproject we decided to solve the OLG Model. First the general assumptions of the model are introduced, while all the necessary packages are imported, too. Then the project continues with the symbolic solution of the Household's (i) and the Firm's (ii) problems. The Households are trying to maximize their utility through the consumption, which is divided in two periods (t, t+1), under the two budget constraints or the Lifetime Budget Constraint (calculated from the two budget constraints). On the other hand, Firms are trying to maximize their profits, which are given by a Cobb-Douglas production function and by assuming perfect competition and no-adjustment cost. Moving forward to our project, the aggregate level of the economy is investigated; both the symbolical (iii) and numerical (iv) solution is provided. At this point, the crucial aggregation is the one of physical capital. From the symbolic solution the Key Transition Equation is calculated, which is the key equation for describing the evolution of the main variable of the model (the capital per effective worker). Moving on to the project, the parameters are substituted with some random values and the numerical solution for the aggregate level of our model is calculated. Also, the Key Transition Equation is plotted to show how the capital (per effective worker) evolves over time. Moreover, from that plot the steady state could be estimated approximately at k* = 0.03 (since it is the intersection of the Key Transition Equation and the 45 degree line). Finally, the steady state (k_t+1 = k_t = k*) is investigated; after solving the Key Transition Equation wrt to k*, the Bisection method is implemented to find the value at which our model converges to the steady state and how many iterations is needs. The results show that our model needs 18 iteration to reach the steady state and the capital per effective worker (𝑘*) equals to 0.032844.
